---
title: Time Management - Schedule Development Process
date: 2017-02-11 18:32:31 Z
categories:
- iteye
layout: post
---

Schedule Development Process It is the core of time management. it's the process where you put it all together. input: Resource Calendar/Network Diagram/Activity List/Activity Attributes/Activity Duration Estimates /Activity Resource Requirements/Project Management Plan/Organizational Process Assets/ Scope Statement output: schedule development The Critial Path is the longest duration of activities list(from start to end) About Activity node(apart from duration), also includes: ES(Early Start): the early start of the first activity in a path is one. the early start of an activity is the early finish of the previous activity plus one EF(Early Finish): the early finish of an activity is its ES plus its duration minus one LS(late start): start with the critical path and take a backward pass through the path. move backwards through the path, filling in the LS by subtracting the duration from the LF and add one. LF(late finish): start by filling in the LF of the last activity in each path which is the same as the EF of the last activity in the crital path. the LF for each activity is the LS of the next one on the paht minus one. tools&techniques: a. Monte Carlo Analysis b. Schedule Model(PM software ) c. critical chain method( resource dependencies) d. resource leveling e. applying calendarsf. adjusting leads and lags output:a. scheduleb. milestone listc. schedule baselined. updates and requested changes